#labels dma,file
= DMA =

=== DMAT ===

{{{
struct dmat_t
{
    char magic[4];
    unsigned int version;
    unsigned int textures_length;
    char textures[textures_length];
    unsigned int material_count;
    material_t materials[material_count];
};
}}}
`magic` is a 4-character code that is always "DMAT".

`version` defines the version of the DMA file.  At the time of this writing, the only value encountered has been `1`.

`textures_length` defines the byte length of the `textures` string block.

`textures` is a contiguous block of null-terminated strings.  Each string defines the file name of the texture to be used for the material.

`material_count` defines the amount of `MATERIAL` blocks that immediately follow the `DMAT` block.

`materials` is an array of `material_t` structs of size `dmat_t::material_count`.

----
=== MATERIAL ===

{{{
struct material_t
{
    unsigned int name_hash;
    unsigned int data_length;
    unsigned int material_definition_hash;
    unsigned int parameter_count;
    material_parameter_t parameters[parameter_count];
};
}}}

`name_hash` is the 

`data_length` defines the length of the `MATERIAL` block.

`material_definition_hash` defines the hashed name of the material definition as defined in the `materials_3.xml` file.

`parameter_count` defines the size of the `material_t::parameters` array.

`parameters` is an array of `material_parameter_t` objects of size `material_t::parameter_count`.

----
=== MATERIAL PARAMETER ===
{{{
struct material_parameter_t
{
    unsigned int name_hash;
    unsigned int d3dxparameter_class;
    unsigned int d3dxparameter_type;
    unsigned int data_length;
    byte_t data[data_length];
};
}}}

`name_hash` is the hashed name of the parameter.  Its usage is unknown.

`d3dxparameter_class` defines the [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/bb205378(v=vs.85).aspx D3DXPARAMETER_CLASS] of the parameter.

`d3dxparameter_type` defines the [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/bb205380(v=vs.85).aspx D3DXPARAMTER_TYPE] of the parameter.

`data_length` defines size of the `material_parameter_t::data` array.

`data` is a byte array of size `material_parameter_t::data_length` that defines the parameter data.